doc/internals/resource.md, before:

# Resource

Resources are files coupled with the application code.

Resource files can be sorted into two main groups:

* unstructured
    * images (JPG, PNG etc.)
    * vector graphics (SVG)
    * fonts
    * generic file
* structured
    * text
        * simple strings such as labels
        * templates for rendering strings
        * rich text strings (HTML, Markdown)
    * repositories
        * fragment references
        * Adat class references
        * WireFormat references
        * virtual fragments
        * virtual Adat classes

The unstructured group is simple to handle as the resource is just a byte array to be passed to whatever
function can process it.

The structured group is much more complex. Each kind has its own structure, pre- and post-processing.

## Resource access

The resource is generally passed to a function as below. The `Files.test` in this case references the
generic file resource called `test`.

The resource subsystem uses the current system environment (from `defaultResourceEnvironment`) to select between
the variations of `test` by qualifiers.

```kotlin
fun someFun() {
    printFile(Files.test)
}

fun printSize(file : FileResource) {
    println(file.readAll().decodeToString())
}
```

If not instructed otherwise, all resource accessors are extension functions of the global objects defined in
`fun.adaptive.resouce.model`:

* Files
* Fonts
* Graphics
* Images
* Strings

## Unstructured resources

Basically files, read with:

```kotlin
suspend fun someFun(file : FileResource) {
    val bytes = file.readAll()
}
```

## Structured resources

* Each structured resource file is compiled into an [AVS](avs.md) file.
* For each AVS file set a `*StoreResourceSet` is created.
* The `*StoreResourceSet` class handles the type-specific processing of resource values.

An example for strings:

```kotlin
private val commonStrings =
    StringStoreResourceSet(
        name = "common",
        FileResource("strings/common-cs-CZ.avs", setOf(LanguageQualifier("cs"), RegionQualifier("CZ"))),
        FileResource("strings/common-hu-HU.avs", setOf(LanguageQualifier("hu"), RegionQualifier("HU")))
    )
    
val Strings.helloWorld
    get() = commonStrings.get(12) // 12 is the index of the string in the AVS
```


### Implications

The implementation structure above have a few implications.

#### Initial load

When structured resources used in non-suspending context, we cannot use `ResourceFileSet.readAll` as it is
a suspending function.

Therefore, automatic loading in non-suspending context is not possible, for example using string resources in
UI code cannot wait until strings are loaded.

This implies that resources used in non-suspending context must be loaded during application startup. To achieve
this the resource type specific class `*StoreResourceSet` should provide a suspending `load` function.

```kotlin
suspend fun main() {
    commonStrings.load()
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> 
> The example above uses the default environment and the default reader. The actual implementation provided
> parameters to change these.
> 

#### Index

Using AVS for structured resources means that the resource access relies heavily on the index.

The index **MUST** be the same in all qualified resource files, otherwise the all hell breaks loose.

To ensure this we have to generate a compilation error if there is a missing value in any of the
qualified files.

If there is a need for values that are not replicated there is the possibility to create another
resource set with different qualifiers or no qualifiers at all.

For example:

```kotlin
strings/common-cs-CZ.avs
strings/common-hu-HU.avs
strings/unqualified.avs
```

> [!NOTE]
> 
> I've been thinking about using an inline get for the accessor, but it might be bad idea because of
> the direct index. If I inline the call ,multi-module setups will have a hidden dependency because
> of the index. This might or might not be a problem, I should check it in detail before using inline.
> 

## Data size

These are from ChatGPT, so take them with a grain of salt.

The number of strings present in a mobile application can vary widely depending on the complexity,
purpose, and functionality of the app. However, here are some general estimates for different types
of mobile applications:

* Simple Apps (e.g., calculator, flashlight, basic utility apps):
    * Number of Strings: 50-200
* Moderate Complexity Apps (e.g., social media, news, fitness tracking):
    * Number of Strings: 200-1000
* Complex Apps (e.g., e-commerce, banking, extensive productivity tools):
    * Number of Strings: 1000-5000
* Highly Complex Apps (e.g., large-scale enterprise apps, comprehensive games, multi-functional platforms):
    * Number of Strings: 5000+

With 5000 strings and average size of 50 characters/string and 25 characters of metadata, the total size is 375 KB.
If we double the bytes needed per character (Unicode), that is 625 KB.

### Generated code size

**These calculations are based on the code I copied from Compose in May 2024.** Most probably it will get optimized,
but it is good to have some pointers to base our future development on.

Using the following string resource:

```xml
<resources>
    <string name="app_name">"Good Morning"</string>
    <string name="snooze">Snooze</string>
    <string name="sleepiness">Sleepiness:</string>
    <string name="by_joining">By joining you agree to our</string>
    <string name="terms_of_service">Terms of Service</string>
    <string name="and">and</string>
    <string name="privacy_policy">Privacy Policy</string>
</resources>
```

I get these file sizes (~11 KB):

```text
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  3935 Jul 10 03:51 CommonMainString0.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff   721 Jul 10 03:51 Res$string.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  2192 Jul 10 03:51 Res.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  4425 Jul 10 03:51 String0_commonMainKt.class

```

Most of it is probably just overhead. Duplicating the strings:

```xml
<resources>
    <string name="app_name">"Good Morning"</string>
    <string name="snooze">Snooze</string>
    <string name="sleepiness">Sleepiness:</string>
    <string name="by_joining">By joining you agree to our</string>
    <string name="terms_of_service">Terms of Service</string>
    <string name="and">and</string>
    <string name="privacy_policy">Privacy Policy</string>

    <string name="app_name2">"Good Morning"</string>
    <string name="snooze2">Snooze</string>
    <string name="sleepiness2">Sleepiness:</string>
    <string name="by_joining2">By joining you agree to our</string>
    <string name="terms_of_service2">Terms of Service</string>
    <string name="and2">and</string>
    <string name="privacy_policy2">Privacy Policy</string>
</resources>
```

Results in (~17 KB):

```text
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  6479 Jul 10 03:49 CommonMainString0.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff   721 Jul 10 03:49 Res$string.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  2192 Jul 10 03:49 Res.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  7471 Jul 10 03:49 String0_commonMainKt.class
```

So, by adding 81 chars of keys and 89 chars of data **~ 170 bytes**, the size of the generated code
grown by **~ 5.6 KB**, that is **times 32**.

Projecting this increment to size calculations for 5000 strings, the generated code would be **375 KB * 32 = 12 MB**.

I really think that in case of built-in application strings, the size of the actual data is absolutely negligible, the
size of the generated code is a real problem on the other hand. Especially that this is for one language, no qualifiers.

Code optimization tools such as Proguard most probably shrink the code by a large margin, but it still would be much
larger than necessary. (I haven't tested that.)

Commit message:

[core] resource progress
Signed-off-by: Tóth István Zoltán <tiz@simplexion.hu>

doc/internals/resource.md, after:

# Resource

Resources are files coupled with the application code.

Resource files can be sorted into two main groups:

* unstructured
    * images (JPG, PNG etc.)
    * vector graphics (SVG)
    * fonts
    * generic file
* structured
    * text
        * simple strings such as labels
        * templates for rendering strings
        * rich text strings (HTML, Markdown)
    * repositories
        * fragment references
        * Adat class references
        * WireFormat references
        * virtual fragments
        * virtual Adat classes

The unstructured group is simple to handle as the resource is just a byte array to be passed to whatever
function can process it.

The structured group is much more complex. Each kind has its own structure, pre- and post-processing.

## Resource access

The resource is generally passed to a function as below. The `Files.test` in this case references the
generic file resource called `test`.

The resource subsystem uses the current system environment (from `defaultResourceEnvironment`) to select between
the variations of `test` by qualifiers.

```kotlin
fun someFun() {
    printFile(Files.test)
}

fun printSize(file : FileResource) {
    println(file.readAll().decodeToString())
}
```

If not instructed otherwise, all resource accessors are extension functions of the global objects defined in
`fun.adaptive.resouce.model`:

* Files
* Fonts
* Graphics
* Images
* Strings

## Unstructured resources

Basically files, read with:

```kotlin
suspend fun someFun(file : FileResource) {
    val bytes = file.readAll()
}
```

## Structured resources

* Each structured resource file is compiled into an [AVS](avs.md) file.
* For each AVS file set a `*StoreResourceSet` is created.
* The `*StoreResourceSet` class handles the type-specific processing of resource values.

An example for strings:

```kotlin
private val commonStrings =
    StringStoreResourceSet(
        name = "common",
        FileResource("strings/common-cs-CZ.avs", setOf(LanguageQualifier("cs"), RegionQualifier("CZ"))),
        FileResource("strings/common-hu-HU.avs", setOf(LanguageQualifier("hu"), RegionQualifier("HU")))
    )
    
val Strings.helloWorld
    get() = commonStrings.get(12) // 12 is the index of the string in the AVS
```


### Implications

The implementation structure above have a few implications.

#### Initial load

When structured resources used in non-suspending context, we cannot use `ResourceFileSet.readAll` as it is
a suspending function.

Therefore, automatic loading in non-suspending context is not possible, for example using string resources in
UI code cannot wait until strings are loaded.

This implies that resources used in non-suspending context must be loaded during application startup. To achieve
this the resource type specific class `*StoreResourceSet` should provide a suspending `load` function.

```kotlin
suspend fun main() {
    commonStrings.load()
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> 
> The example above uses the default environment and the default reader. The actual implementation provided
> parameters to change these.
> 

#### Index

Using AVS for structured resources means that the resource access relies heavily on the index.

The index **MUST** be the same in all qualified resource files, otherwise the all hell breaks loose.

To ensure this we have to generate a compilation error if there is a missing value in any of the
qualified files.

If there is a need for values that are not replicated there is the possibility to create another
resource set with different qualifiers or no qualifiers at all.

For example:

```kotlin
strings/common-cs-CZ.avs
strings/common-hu-HU.avs
strings/unqualified.avs
```

> [!NOTE]
> 
> I've been thinking about using an inline get for the accessor, but it might be bad idea because of
> the direct index. If I inline the call ,multi-module setups will have a hidden dependency because
> of the index. This might or might not be a problem, I should check it in detail before using inline.
> 

## Accessor generation

Resource accessor code is generated from the content of the resource directory (`adaptiveResources` by default).

The code generator:

- located in the `fun.adaptive.resource.codegen` package
- uses `KotlinWriter` to generate the code
- is started by calling `processResources`

## Data size

These are from ChatGPT, so take them with a grain of salt.

The number of strings present in a mobile application can vary widely depending on the complexity,
purpose, and functionality of the app. However, here are some general estimates for different types
of mobile applications:

* Simple Apps (e.g., calculator, flashlight, basic utility apps):
    * Number of Strings: 50-200
* Moderate Complexity Apps (e.g., social media, news, fitness tracking):
    * Number of Strings: 200-1000
* Complex Apps (e.g., e-commerce, banking, extensive productivity tools):
    * Number of Strings: 1000-5000
* Highly Complex Apps (e.g., large-scale enterprise apps, comprehensive games, multi-functional platforms):
    * Number of Strings: 5000+

With 5000 strings and average size of 50 characters/string and 25 characters of metadata, the total size is 375 KB.
If we double the bytes needed per character (Unicode), that is 625 KB.

### Generated code size

**These calculations are based on the code I copied from Compose in May 2024.** Most probably it will get optimized,
but it is good to have some pointers to base our future development on.

Using the following string resource:

```xml
<resources>
    <string name="app_name">"Good Morning"</string>
    <string name="snooze">Snooze</string>
    <string name="sleepiness">Sleepiness:</string>
    <string name="by_joining">By joining you agree to our</string>
    <string name="terms_of_service">Terms of Service</string>
    <string name="and">and</string>
    <string name="privacy_policy">Privacy Policy</string>
</resources>
```

I get these file sizes (~11 KB):

```text
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  3935 Jul 10 03:51 CommonMainString0.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff   721 Jul 10 03:51 Res$string.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  2192 Jul 10 03:51 Res.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  4425 Jul 10 03:51 String0_commonMainKt.class

```

Most of it is probably just overhead. Duplicating the strings:

```xml
<resources>
    <string name="app_name">"Good Morning"</string>
    <string name="snooze">Snooze</string>
    <string name="sleepiness">Sleepiness:</string>
    <string name="by_joining">By joining you agree to our</string>
    <string name="terms_of_service">Terms of Service</string>
    <string name="and">and</string>
    <string name="privacy_policy">Privacy Policy</string>

    <string name="app_name2">"Good Morning"</string>
    <string name="snooze2">Snooze</string>
    <string name="sleepiness2">Sleepiness:</string>
    <string name="by_joining2">By joining you agree to our</string>
    <string name="terms_of_service2">Terms of Service</string>
    <string name="and2">and</string>
    <string name="privacy_policy2">Privacy Policy</string>
</resources>
```

Results in (~17 KB):

```text
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  6479 Jul 10 03:49 CommonMainString0.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff   721 Jul 10 03:49 Res$string.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  2192 Jul 10 03:49 Res.class
-rw-r--r--  1 tiz  staff  7471 Jul 10 03:49 String0_commonMainKt.class
```

So, by adding 81 chars of keys and 89 chars of data **~ 170 bytes**, the size of the generated code
grown by **~ 5.6 KB**, that is **times 32**.

Projecting this increment to size calculations for 5000 strings, the generated code would be **375 KB * 32 = 12 MB**.

I really think that in case of built-in application strings, the size of the actual data is absolutely negligible, the
size of the generated code is a real problem on the other hand. Especially that this is for one language, no qualifiers.

Code optimization tools such as Proguard most probably shrink the code by a large margin, but it still would be much
larger than necessary. (I haven't tested that.)
